Early Kdump HOWTO

Introduction

Kdump service runs too late, so early crashes will have no chance to get kdump
kernel booting. A proposal is add a dracut module to load pre-built kernel and
initramfs for early kdump, one can provide "rd.early-kdump" in grub commandline
to enable, then the service can load those files like original kdump, which is
disabled by default.

For the normal kdump service in real root init path, it can check whether the
prebuilt kernel and initramfs have been loaded. It has no conflict with the early
kdump.

How to configure early kdump:

We assume if you're reading this document, you should already have kexec-tools
installed. If not, you install it via the following command:

    # yum install kexec-tools

For early kdump, you can set "EARLY_KDUMP_SUPPORT=yes" in /etc/sysconfig/kdump
if you want to rebuild the initramfs for early kdump, and then:
    # kdumpctl restart

By the way, the initramfs will become large, early kdump put the kernel and
initramfs for kdump into the initramfs for boot. If you set "EARLY_KDUMP_SUPPORT
=no" in /etc/sysconfig/kdump, which will restore previous initramfs, that is to
say, it doesn't have early kdump.


Next up, we need to modify some boot parameters to enable early kdump, it's
very easy to append "rd.early-kdump" to your kernel boot parameters in grub.
After making said changes, reboot your system to take effect. Of course, if
you want to disable early kdump, you can simply remove "rd.early-kdump" from
kernel boot parameters in grub, and reboot system like above.

Now that you've got some messages about early kdump, you can check whether early
kdump is successful like this:

    # journalctl -x|grep early-kdump

Then, you will see some useful logs, for exapmles:

1. if early kdump is successful.
Mar 09 09:57:56 localhost.localdomain early-kdump[477]: early-kdump is enabled.
Mar 09 09:57:56 localhost.localdomain early-kdump[477]: kexec: loaded early-
kdump kernel

2. if early kdump is disabled.
Mar 09 10:02:47 localhost.localdomain early-kdump[474]: early-kdump is not en-
abled by default.

Notes:
You will need to make sure that appropriate initramfs and vmlinuz, if early kdump
doesn't find them it will refuse to go on.

In addition, early kdump doesn't support fadump, maybe it will have this in future.
